bpf: nat: Adding a new config field to enable SNAT for remote node. #35823 (#37568)
cilium-team/cilium: Documentation/network/concepts/masquerading.rst

Setting the masquerading interface
  See :ref:`masq_modes` for configuring the masquerading interfaces.

Masquerade traffic to Remote Nodes
**********************************

To masquerade traffic to remote nodes in BPF masquerading mode, use the option ``enable-remote-node-masquerade: "true"``. 
This option requires ``enable-bpf-masquerade: "true"`` and also either 

> ``enable-ipv4-masquerade: "true"`` or ``enable-ipv6-masquerade: "true"`` to SNAT traffic for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.

Reviewer: Suggestion to clarify which traffic is affected by the option:

```suggestion
``enable-ipv4-masquerade: "true"`` or ``enable-ipv6-masquerade: "true"`` to SNAT traffic for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.
This option only affects traffic from an Endpoint directed towards the address of a remote node, and not traffic between Endpoints on different nodes.
```

> However, this flag does not provide the optimal behavior because packets directed to the nodes' InternalIP addresses will also be masqueraded. 
> To achieve the optimal behavior, we would need to inform the datapath about the type of IP address each node IP address represents. 
> This could potentially be accomplished by extending the node ID map.

Reviewer: This is user documentation describing the concepts, but the text appears to be proposing future changes that may or may not be put into Cilium. I would suggest to make the text clear and specific about the current behavior and leave forward-looking statements for issue discussions.
```suggestion
This flag currently masquerades traffic to node ``InternalIP`` addresses. This may change in future. See :gh-issue:`####` for further discussion on this topic.
```

Note the suggestion above does not specify a specific github issue; you might consider filing a new one for the proposed solution, or alternatively you could reuse one of the existing ones. Depends whether we intend to close those existing issues assuming this PR is accepted.

Author: Done in the new commit

> 

Reviewer: I could imagine this feature leading to confused deputy attacks in an environment, so it's probably best recommended to be disabled by default:

```suggestion

This option can limit Cilium's ability to enforce ingress host firewall policies for traffic from Pods towards Nodes.
If you use this option, consider establishing default deny policies to prevent Endpoints from communicating with Nodes,
and minimize use of policy statements that allow traffic from remote nodes (such as the ``remote-node`` Entity).
If in doubt, disable this option.

```

Setting the masquerading interface
  See :ref:`masq_modes` for configuring the masquerading interfaces.

Masquerade traffic to Remote Nodes
**********************************

To masquerade traffic to remote nodes in BPF masquerading mode, use the option ``enable-remote-node-masquerade: "true"``. 
This option requires ``enable-bpf-masquerade: "true"`` and also either 
``enable-ipv4-masquerade: "true"`` or ``enable-ipv6-masquerade: "true"`` to SNAT traffic for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.
This option only affects traffic from an Endpoint directed towards the address of a remote node, and not traffic between Endpoints on different nodes.

> This flag currently masquerades traffic to node ``InternalIP`` addresses. This may change in future. See : (:gh-issue:`35823`) and (:gh-issue:`17177`) for further discussion on this topic.

Reviewer: Minor nit for formatting:
```suggestion
This flag currently masquerades traffic to node ``InternalIP`` addresses. This may change in future. See :gh-issue:`35823` and :gh-issue:`17177` for further discussion on this topic.
```

Author: Been addressed in the new commit

when ``egress-masquerade-interfaces`` is empty. When ``egress-masquerade-interfaces`` is set, 
it takes precedence over ``devices`` to choose which network interface should perform masquerading.
You can set ``egress-masquerade-interfaces`` to match multiple interfaces like this: ``eth+ ens+``.

> SNAT traffic to Remote Node

Author: Addressed in the new commit.

> SNAT traffic to Remote Node
> ****************************
> 
> To SNAT traffic to the remote node in BPF routing mode, a feature flag has been introduced. 
> It can be enabled via the option ``enable-remote-node-snat: "true"``. 
> This option requires ``enable-bpf-masquerade: "true"`` and also either 
> ``enable-ipv4-masquerade: "true"`` or ``enable-ipv6-masquerade: "true"`` to SNAT traffic for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.
> 
> However, this flag does not provide the optimal behavior because packets directed to the nodes' InternalIP addresses will also be masqueraded. 
> To achieve the optimal behavior, we would need to inform the datapath about the type of IP address each node IP address represents. 
> This could potentially be accomplished by extending the node ID map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Masquerade traffic to Remote Nodes
****************************

To masquerade traffic to remote nodes in BPF routing mode, use the option ``enable-remote-node-masquerade: "true"``. 
This option requires ``enable-bpf-masquerade: "true"`` and also either 
``enable-ipv4-masquerade: "true"`` or ``enable-ipv6-masquerade: "true"`` to SNAT traffic for IPv4 and IPv6, respectively.

However, this flag does not provide the optimal behavior because packets directed to the nodes' InternalIP addresses will also be masqueraded. 
To achieve the optimal behavior, we would need to inform the datapath about the type of IP address each node IP address represents. 
This could potentially be accomplished by extending the node ID map.
```

when ``egress-masquerade-interfaces`` is empty. When ``egress-masquerade-interfaces`` is set, 
it takes precedence over ``devices`` to choose which network interface should perform masquerading.
You can set ``egress-masquerade-interfaces`` to match multiple interfaces like this: ``eth+ ens+``.

> Masquerade traffic to Remote Nodes

Author: resolved in the new commit
